---
layout: post
title:  "RSpec"
date:   2014-05-06 12:31:00
categories: blog
comments: true
---

The past few days I've started working on some TDD using RSpec.  This is the first time I've ever used or practiced RSpec and I must say it is pretty cool.  In fact, after watching a few videos about TDD (test-driven development) I can't think of a reason you wouldn't use it.  Personally, I feel it fits my work flow perfectly. Typically, when i'm trying to solve a problem I will write it down in plain English in a way that describes how I think code should work, from there I go ahead and try and write the code.  The great thing is I am essentially writing on paper what I would be coding in RSpec.  From now on I am planning on implementing this strategy, simple as that.

I did have some issues getting RSpec up and running.  I followed the standard.

```
$ gem install rspec  
```

This worked fine and I continued on to practicing with testfirst.org. I found while working on the first lesson that I would get this strange error:

` $ rake  `

`(in /Users/**/Documents/Ruby/Odin Project/learn_ruby)`
`/Users/**/Documents/Ruby/Odin Project/learn_ruby/00_hello/hello_spec.rb`
`:116:inrequire': cannot load such file -- hello (LoadError)`

After a bunch of searching on google and stackoverflow, I managed to find the problem, A space in a folder name...wow. I changed my folder to Odin_Project and was off and running.

On a side note, I managed to finish my second week, still going strong.  Put in about 21hrs.
