---
layout: post
title:  "On Track"
date:   2015-03-25 19:27:00
categories: blog
comments: true
---

Wow, where do I begin.  This is one of those few times where I feel there are a million things I could write about.  Sometimes, ill struggle a bit before deciding on a topic but not this week.  Job hunt is going well (so far) but what I am really excited about is the new project I am working on.  

So, for a while now I've wanted to build this project I was thinking about but hadn't really got it going for a couple of reasons. 

  * I was working on [code union](http://codeunion.io) projects.
  * I have a hard time envisioning this project on any other platform other than mobile.  Although, I think it can and will have a web aspect but that will be secondary.

Now that I have some more time..(it's all relative), I can focus on this project.  I'm not going to spoil what the project is quite yet.  I think I'll end up doing a few posts about it here moving forward..Yippee!  

Here's what I can tell you:

 * The back-end is a rails API.
 * The primary consumer of said API will be a iOS...How I will build that I have no idea. But am excited to find out.
 * The front end (last thing to be built) will be built using [ember.js](http://emberjs.com).

 So, why am I so excited about this. Well, even if the idea isn't great for the app I get to get my hands dirty with some new tools I have yet to use.  I've done very little with rails in terms of architecting an API.  I have added the odd endpoint here and there, but that's really it.  Also, it makes a lot of sense to me to build an API, then in the future it's so much easier connecting to other services and scaling in the future.

 As for iOS, I am obviously not to that stage of development yet.  However, I have always wanted to mess around with Xcode and swift, now is as good a time as any.  I can see this part possibly being the most difficult but well see.  First, I am focusing on a stable tested API and we'll go from there.

 Finally, I'll implement a basic client side ember app that can consume the REST API.

 So, here's were I am at:

 I chose to use the ```rails-api``` gem along with ```active model serializers``` as the primary pieces to my API.  I have mapped out my endpoints for the most part written my first request spec and began modeling ```users```.  Also, I went ahead and got ember-cli setup (because I was overly excited).  I just wanted to make sure I could connect to the API and that good stuff. 

 So, moving forward I think I'll write a few post about this project.  I think it's going to be a fun one.  I have already ran into a bunch of "speed-bumps" along the way so far.  I find that great actually, it gives me opportunities to dig a little deeper and learn more.  I've got a good list going of some fun things I've learned and I'll be sure to do a quick post here and there with those.

 Sorry, no fun pictures this time..

