---
layout: post
title:  "Teamwork"
date:   2015-02-13 19:27:00
categories: blog
comments: true
---

For the past couple of weeks I've been working on [ZipShare](https://github.com/zipshare) with our [code union](http://codeunion.io) team. Although, were off to a slow start I feel we're starting to gain momentum.  I think primarily, we were in the process of felling each other out and developing our group mojo. So now I guess it's time to bang out some features. 

So far, I have really worked independently when it comes to coding.  Sure, I had the occasional pairing session but that's about it.  It's kind of been invigorating being thrust into a position where your expected to ship features.  As I am trying to get the most out of this experience, I've been all over the waffle board helping as much as I can. 

I've learned a ton already, about the development process within a team.  Also, I've been learning about tools dev teams use to stay organized and productive.  I think I learned more git commands in the past few weeks than I have in a year.

A couple times a week we meet as a group through [zoom](http://zoom.us). We actually just setup and configured our own remote dev environment on an AWS EC2 instance. We were able to SSH in and get ruby setup along with all the dependencies our project required.  This definitely proved to be an improvement over zooms screen controlling features..Much faster as well, Fun stuff.

Overall, I'm really loving the process.  Everything really.  It's been rubbing off on personal projects as well.  New tools, more efficient processes really add up. Keeping this post short, got projects to work on!

